Split and edit scripting_continued.rst, improve scripting section (#4344)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/scripting/nodes_and_scene_instances.rst

Nodes and scene instances
=========================

This guide explains how to get nodes, create nodes, add them as a child, and
instantiate scenes from code.

Getting nodes
-------------

You can get a reference to a node by calling the :ref:`Node.get_node()
<class_Node_method_get_node>` method. For this to work, the child node must be
present in the scene tree. Getting it in the parent node's ``_ready()`` function
guarantees that.

Say you have a scene tree like this, and you want to get a reference to the
Sprite and Camera2D nodes to access them in your script.

.. image:: img/nodes_and_scene_instances_player_scene_example.png

To do so, you can use the following code.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var sprite
    var camera2d

    func _ready():
        sprite = get_node("Sprite")
        camera2d = get_node("Camera2D")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    private Sprite _sprite;
    private Camera2D _camera2d;

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        base._Ready();

        _sprite = GetNode<Sprite>("Sprite");
        _camera2d = GetNode<Camera2D>("Camera2D");
    }

Note that you get nodes by their name. For example, if you rename the Sprite

> node into Skin, the call to get it would have to be ``get_node("Skin")``.

Author: Node names are PascalCase so that's normal. The intention here is to explain that you get nodes by names, not by type.

For instance, if you have the following scene tree (node types after colons).

```
Main: Node2D
|
--- Skin: Sprite
--- Shape: CollisionShape2D
```

To get the sprite from Main you need to call `get_node("Skin")`, *not* `get_node("Sprite")`

> node into Skin, the call to get it would have to be ``get_node("Skin")``.

Reviewer: Maybe add that example then? Unfortunately "if you rename the Sprite node into Skin" isn't clear.

Node paths
----------

You're not limited to getting a direct child. The ``get_node()`` function
supports paths, a bit like when working with a file browser. Add a slash to
separate nodes.

Take the following example scene, with the script attached to the UserInterface
node.

.. image:: img/nodes_and_scene_instances_ui_scene_example.png

To get the Tween node, you would use the following code.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var tween

    func _ready():
        tween = get_node("ShieldBar/Tween")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    private Tween _tween;

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        base._Ready();

        _tween = GetNode<Tween>("ShieldBar/Tween");
    }

.. note:: As with file paths, you can use ".." to get a parent node. The best
          practice is to avoid doing that though not to break encapsulation and

>           keep your code organized. You can also start the path with a forward

Reviewer: This doesn't explain how using ".." makes your code disorganized.

Author: It goes with breaking encapsulation: you're having children control parents. I'll edit this out.

>           practice is to avoid doing that though not to break encapsulation and
>           keep your code organized. You can also start the path with a forward

Author: ```suggestion
          practice is to avoid doing that though not to break encapsulation.
          You can also start the path with a forward
```

          slash to make it absolute, in which case your topmost node would be
          "/root", the application's predefined root viewport.

Syntactic sugar
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can use two shorthands to shorten your code in GDScript: putting the

Reviewer: The colon shouldn't be here as you've only supplied one of the two shorthands in this sentence.
```suggestion
You can use two shorthands to shorten your code in GDScript. Firstly, putting the
```

``onready`` keyword before a member variable makes it initialize right before
the ``_ready()`` callback.

.. code-block:: gdscript

    onready var sprite = get_node("Sprite")

There is also a short notation for ``get_node()``: the dollar sign, "$". You
place it before the name or path of the node you want to get.

.. code-block:: gdscript

    onready var sprite = $Sprite
    onready var tween = $ShieldBar/Tween

Creating nodes
--------------

To create a node from code, call its ``new()`` method like for any other
class-based datatype.

You can store the newly created node's reference in a variable and call
``add_child()`` to add it as a child of the node to which you attached the
script.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var sprite

    func _ready():
        var sprite = Sprite.new() # Create a new Sprite.
        add_child(sprite) # Add it as a child of this node.

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    private Sprite _sprite;

    public override void _Ready()
    {
        base._Ready();

        _sprite = new Sprite(); // Create a new Sprite.
        AddChild(_sprite); // Add it as a child of this node.
    }

> 

Reviewer: Possibly a before and after screenshot of the scene tree might be beneficial?

To delete a node and free it from memory, you can call its ``queue_free()``
method. Doing so queues the node for deletion at the end of the current frame

> after it finished processing. At that point, the engine removes the node from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after it has finished processing. At that point, the engine removes the node from
```

Author: Is the preterit grammatically incorrect in this case? The grammar checker doesn't consider this to be an error.

Reviewer: You're queuing the node for doing something later so you're in future tense. 
If you had said "It queued the node for deletion after it finished processing" then the omission of "has" would be correct.

the scene and frees the object in memory.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    sprite.queue_free()

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    _sprite.QueueFree();

You can alternatively call ``free()`` to immediately destroy the node. You
should do this with care as any reference to it will instantly become ``null``.

> We recommend using ``queue_free()`` unless you know what you're doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommend you use ``queue_free()`` unless you know what you're doing.
```

Author: We favor the direct voice over passive.

Reviewer: It sounds strange to me saying "we" in the document but if that's the standard then no problem.

When you free a node, it also frees all its children. Thanks to this, to delete
an entire branch of the scene tree, you only have to free the topmost parent
node.

Instancing scenes
-----------------

> Instancing a scene from code happens in two steps:

Reviewer: Needs a sentence describing what instancing a scene actually is and why/when you would do it.

Author: Instancing is introduced in detail in the getting started series. We can cross-reference the two page as to explain instancing, you need to explain scenes first.

1. Loading the scene from the hard drive.
2. Creating an instance of the loaded :ref:`PackedScene <class_PackedScene>`
   resource.

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var scene = load("res://MyScene.tscn")

 .. code-tab:: csharp

    var scene = GD.Load<PackedScene>("res://MyScene.tscn");

> Preloading it can improve the user's experience as it happens when parsing the
> script. This feature is only available with GDScript.

Reviewer: Can we detail why it improves the experience here please? 
```suggestion
Preloading the scene can improve the user's experience as the load operation happens when before the script starts and not during scene execution.. This feature is only available with GDScript.
```

Author: Sure, thanks

.. tabs::
 .. code-tab:: gdscript GDScript

    var scene = preload("res://MyScene.tscn")

> At that point, ``scene`` is a packed scene resource, not a node. To create the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, ``scene`` is a packed scene resource and can't be used until it's converted to a node. To create the
```

Author: I don't think it helps here, it's incorrect. You're not converting it to a node, you're creating an instance of it, which produces concrete nodes from the blueprint that the scene is. You can create as many instances as you want, keeping the resource loaded for when you need it

Reviewer: Thank you for the correction.

actual node, you need to call :ref:`PackedScene.instance()
<class_PackedScene_method_instance>`. It returns a tree of nodes that you can

> add as a child.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add to your node tree.
```
or
```suggestion
as a child of your current node.
```
though I'd go with the first as you don't have to only add it as a child.
